# Contributing to GSB_PROSPECTS

:+1: First thank you to contribute to this project.

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to Galaxy Swiss Bourdin (GSB) Projects and its packages, which are hosted in the GSB Organization on GitLab. These are mostly guidelines, not rules. Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

## Table of Contents

1. [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)

1. [What should I know before I get started?](#what-should-i-know-before-i-get-started)

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the [GSB Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to [gsb@gitlab.com](mailto:gsb@gitlab.com).

## What should I know before I get started?

### GSB Projects

Galaxy Swiss Bourdin (GSB) projects are open source projects &mdash; under  [GPL 3.0 License](LICENSE.md).

GSB Projets are hosted and managed from the GitLab [repositories](https://gitlab.com/gsb).

When you initially consider contributing to a GSB Project, you might be unsure about which of those repositories implements the functionality you want to change or report a bug for. This section should help you with that.

Here's a list of the main projects:

* [GSB_COMPTE_RENDU](https://gitlab.com/gsb/gsb_compte_rendu) - merchandising repport management
* [GSB_FRAIS](https://gitlab.com/gsb/gsb_frais) - costs management
* [GSB_PLANNING](https://gitlab.com/gsb/gsb_planning) - merchandising calendar
* [GSB_PROSPECTS](https://gitlab.com/gsb/gsb_prospects) - prospection management
* [GSB_WEB_SERVICE](https://gitlab.com/gsb/gsb_web_service) - database web service

Please read the readme file on these projects for more details.

#### Projects Conventions

There are a few conventions that have developed over time around projects:

* Project name are prefixed by GSB_

* Project root folder contains only
  * [README.md](README.md) - project information file
  * [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) - license file
  * [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) - how to contribute
  * [VERSION](VERSION) - project version number
  * [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) - generated by the [bump-version](bump-version.sh) script and reviewed
  * [composer.json](composer.json) - Composer JSON configuration file
  * [phpunit.xml](phpunit.xml) - PHPUnit XML configuration file
  * [bump-version.sh](bump-version.sh) - **used by project owner only** - the shell script to bump to the next version
  * [src](src) - source code folder
  * [tests](tests) - unit tests forlder
  * vendor - dependencies folder (managed by composer)

* Project architecture

  GSB Projects are using the MVC design pattern

* Project source code folders
  * controller  - controllers
  * kernel      - kernel functionnalities
  * model
    * dao       - database access
    * objects   - entities
  * view
    * css       - stylesheets
    * images    - pictures
    * templates - html templates

## How Can I Contribute?

### Reporting Bugs

This section guides you through submitting a bug report for GSB. Following these guidelines helps maintainers and the community understand your report, reproduce the behavior, and find related reports.

Before creating bug reports, please check [this list](#before-submitting-a-bug-report) as you might find out that you don't need to create one. When you are creating a bug report, please [include as many details as possible](#how-do-i-submit-a-good-bug-report). Fill out [the required template](ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md), the information it asks for helps us resolve issues faster.

> **Note:** If you find a **Closed** issue that seems like it is the same thing that you're experiencing, open a new issue and include a link to the original issue in the body of your new one.

#### Before Submitting A Bug Report

* **Check the [development guide](https://gitlab.com/gsb/DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md).** You might be able to find the cause of the problem and fix things yourself.
* **Check the [FAQs on GitLab](https://gitlab.com/gsb/faq)** for a list of common questions and problems.
* **Determine [which repository the problem should be reported in](#gsb-projects)**.
* **Perform a [cursory search](https://gitlab.com/search?utf8=✓&snippets=&scope=issues&search=)**, and select a GSB Project, to see if the problem has already been reported. If it has **and the issue is still open**, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.

#### How Do I Submit A (Good) Bug Report?

Bugs are tracked as [GitLab issues](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/issues/). After you've determined [which repository](#gsb-projects) your bug is related to, create an issue on that repository and provide the following information by filling in [the template](ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md).

Explain the problem and include additional details to help maintainers reproduce the problem:

* **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the problem.
* **Describe the exact steps which reproduce the problem** in as many details as possible. For example, start by explaining how you started the project, e.g. which page exactly you entered, or how you started the project otherwise. When listing steps, **don't just say what you did, but explain how you did it**. For example, explain if you used a specifique button, a link, and if so which one?
* **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include links to files or GitLab projects, or copy/pasteable snippets, which you use in those examples. If you're providing snippets in the issue, use [Markdown code blocks](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/markdown.html#code-and-syntax-highlighting).
* **Describe the behavior you observed after following the steps** and point out what exactly is the problem with that behavior.
* **Explain which behavior you expected to see instead and why.**
* **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which show you following the described steps and clearly demonstrate the problem. You can use [this tool](http://www.cockos.com/licecap/) to record GIFs on macOS and Windows, and [this tool](https://github.com/colinkeenan/silentcast) or [this tool](https://github.com/GNOME/byzanz) on Linux.
* **If you're reporting that the project crashed**, include a crash report with a stack trace from the operating system or the web browser. On macOS, the crash report will be available in `Console.app` under "Diagnostic and usage information" > "User diagnostic reports". Include the crash report in the issue in a [code block](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/markdown.html#multiline-blockquote).
* **If the problem wasn't triggered by a specific action**, describe what you were doing before the problem happened and share more information using the guidelines below.

Provide more context by answering these questions:

* **Can you reproduce the problem?**
* **Did the problem start happening recently** (e.g. after the update to a new version of the project) or was this always a problem?
* If the problem started happening recently, **can you reproduce the problem in an older version of the project?** What's the most recent version in which the problem doesn't happen? You can download older versions of the project from the releases page like this : [https://gitlab.com/gsb/{project}/releases](https://gitlab.com/gsb/{project}/releases).
* **Can you reliably reproduce the issue?** If not, provide details about how often the problem happens and under which conditions it normally happens.

Include details about your configuration and environment:

* **What's the name and version of the OS you're using**?
* **What's the name and version of the Web browser you're using**?

### Suggesting Enhancements

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for Atom, including completely new features and minor improvements to existing functionality. Following these guidelines helps maintainers and the community understand your suggestion :pencil: and find related suggestions :mag_right:.

Before creating enhancement suggestions, please check [this list](#before-submitting-an-enhancement-suggestion) as you might find out that you don't need to create one. When you are creating an enhancement suggestion, please [include as many details as possible](#how-do-i-submit-a-good-enhancement-suggestion). Fill in [the template](ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md), including the steps that you imagine you would take if the feature you're requesting existed.

#### Before Submitting An Enhancement Suggestion

* **Check if there's already [a project](https://gitlab.com/users/gsb/projects) which provides that enhancement.**
* **Determine [which repository the enhancement should be suggested in](#gsb-projects).**
* **Perform a [cursory search](https://gitlab.com/search?utf8=✓&snippets=&scope=issues&search=)** to see if the enhancement has already been suggested. If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.

#### How Do I Submit A (Good) Enhancement Suggestion?

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitLab issues](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/issues/). After you've determined [which repository](#gsb-projects) your enhancement suggestion is related to, create an issue on that repository and provide the following information:

* **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
* **Provide a step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement** in as many details as possible.
* **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include copy/pasteable snippets which you use in those examples, as [Markdown code blocks](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/markdown.html#code-and-syntax-highlighting).
* **Describe the current behavior** and **explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why.
* **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part of the GSB Project which the suggestion is related to. You can use [this tool](http://www.cockos.com/licecap/) to record GIFs on macOS and Windows, and [this tool](https://github.com/colinkeenan/silentcast) or [this tool](https://github.com/GNOME/byzanz) on Linux.
* **Explain why this enhancement would be useful** to most users and isn't something that can or should be implemented in a new [GSB Project](#gsb-projects).
* **List some other applications where this enhancement exists.**
* **Specify the name and version of OS and Web Browser you're using.**

### Your First Code Contribution

Unsure where to begin contributing to a GSB Project? You can start by looking through these `beginner` and `help-wanted` issues:

* [Beginner issues][beginner] - issues which should only require a few lines of code, and a test or two.
* [Help wanted issues][help-wanted] - issues which should be a bit more involved than `beginner` issues.

Both issue lists are sorted by total number of comments. While not perfect, number of comments is a reasonable proxy for impact a given change will have.

#### Local development

All projects can be developed locally, by checking out the corresponding repository. Dependencies are managed with `composer`:

```bash
$ git clone url-to-git-repository
$ cd path-to-package/
$ composer update
```

### Pull Requests

* Fill in [the required template](PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md)
* Do not include issue numbers in the PR title
* Include screenshots and animated GIFs in your pull request whenever possible.
* Follow the [JavaScript](#javascript-styleguide) and [PHP](#php-styleguide) styleguides.
* Include thoughtfully-worded, well-structured [Jasmine](http://jasmine.github.io/) specs in the `./spec` folder. See the [Specs Styleguide](#specs-styleguide) below.
* Document new code based on the [Documentation Styleguide](#documentation-styleguide)
* End all files with a newline

## Styleguides

### Git Commit Messages

* Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
* Use the imperative mood ("Move cursor to..." not "Moves cursor to...")
* Limit the first line to 72 characters or less
* Reference issues and pull requests liberally after the first line
* When only changing documentation, include `[ci skip]` in the commit description
